The National Building Code of Canada 2020 (NBC), together with the National Plumbing
Code of Canada 2020 (NPC), the National Fire Code of Canada 2020 (NFC) and the National
Energy Code of Canada for Buildings 2020 (NECB), was developed by the Canadian
Commission on Building and Fire Codes (CCBFC) as an objective-based national model code
that can be adopted by provincial and territorial governments.
In Canada, provincial and territorial governments have the authority to enact legislation
that regulates building design and construction within their jurisdictions. This may involve
the adoption of the NBC without change or with modifications to suit local needs, and
the enactment of other laws and regulations regarding building design and construction,
including requirements for professional involvement.
The NBC is a model code in the sense that it helps promote consistency among provincial
and territorial building codes. Persons involved in the design or construction of a building
should consult the provincial or territorial jurisdiction concerned to find out which building
code is applicable.
This edition of the NBC succeeds the 2015 edition.
Development of the National Model Codes
GOVERNANCE CHANGE NOTE: The national code development system underwent a
governance change in November 2022 to support efforts to harmonize construction codes
in jurisdictions throughout Canada. The CCBFC, which had been in place since 1991, was
dissolved and replaced by a new governance model in which the Canadian Board for
Harmonized Construction Codes (CBHCC) is responsible for developing, approving and
maintaining the National Model Codes based on the strategic priorities set by the Canadian
Table for Harmonized Construction Codes Policy. The 2020 National Model Codes were
developed by the CCBFC. In this section, references to the CCBFC are written in the past
tense to reflect the change in governance.
The CCBFC, an independent committee established by the National Research Council of
Canada (NRC), was responsible for the content of the 2020 editions of the National Model
Codes. The CCBFC was made up of volunteers from across the country and from all facets of
the Codes-user community. Members of the CCBFC and its standing committees included
builders, engineers, skilled trade workers, architects, building owners, building operators, fire
and building officials, manufacturers, and representatives of general interests.
The CCBFC was advised on scope, policy and technical issues pertaining to the Codes by
the Provincial/Territorial Policy Advisory Committee on Codes (PTPACC), which was a
committee of senior representatives from provincial/territorial ministries responsible for
building, fire, plumbing and energy regulation in their jurisdictions. The PTPACC was
created by the provinces and territories, with provision of guidance to the CCBFC as one of its
main functions. Through the PTPACC, the provinces and territories were engaged in every
phase of the Codes development process.
Codes Canada staff within the Construction Research Centre at the NRC provided technical
and administrative support to the CCBFC and its standing committees, and coordinated the
provision of evidence-based research to inform Codes development. The NRC publishes the
National Model Codes and periodic revisions to the Codes to address pressing issues.